# .NET MAUI 


.NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) lets you build native apps using a .NET cross-platform UI toolkit that targets the mobile and desktop form factors on Android, iOS, macOS, Windows, and Tizen.


.NET MAUI is open-source and is the evolution of Xamarin.Forms, extended from mobile to desktop scenarios, with UI controls rebuilt from the ground up for performance and extensibility. If you've previously used Xamarin.Forms to build cross-platform user interfaces, you'll notice many similarities with .NET MAUI

# .NET MAUI essentials

.NET MAUI provides cross-platform APIs for native device features. Examples of functionality provided by .NET MAUI essentials includes:

-    Access to sensors, such as the accelerometer, compass, and gyroscope on devices.
-    Ability to check the device's network connectivity state, and detect changes.
-    Provide information about the device the app is running on.
-    Copy and paste text to the system clipboard, between apps.
-    Pick single or multiple files from the device.
-    Store data securely as key/value pairs.
-    Utilize built-in text-to-speech engines to read text from the device.
-    Initiate browser-based authentication flows that listen for a callback to a specific app registered URL.

# XAML

The eXtensible Application Markup Language (XAML) is an XML-based language that's an alternative to programming code for instantiating and initializing objects, and organizing those objects in parent-child hierarchies.

XAML allows developers to define user interfaces in .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) apps using markup rather than code. XAML is not required in a .NET MAUI app, but it is the recommended approach to developing your UI because it's often more succinct, more visually coherent, and has tooling support. XAML is also well suited for use with the Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) pattern, where XAML defines the view that is linked to viewmodel code through XAML-based data bindings.

## Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) 



# Version

Microsoft says .NET MAUI will go GA sometime in the first half of 2022. It also says a Release Candidate is coming in the first quarter of the year, which ends next month.